README.md, before:

## AWS Storage Gateway User Guide

The open source version of the AWS Storage Gateway User Guide.

This guide covers general concepts and procedures common to all gateway types, as well as specific information about Tape and Volume Gateways.

You can navigate the guide starting from the [index](doc_source/index.md).

-IMPORTANT-
Dedicated user guides are now available for the following gateway types:
* [Amazon S3 File Gateway User Guide](https://github.com/awsdocs/amazon-s3-file-gateway-user-guide)
* [Amazon FSx File Gateway User Guide](https://github.com/awsdocs/amazon-fsx-file-gateway-user-guide)

You can submit feedback & requests for changes by submitting issues in this repo or by making proposed changes & submitting a pull request.

## License Summary

The documentation is made available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License. See the LICENSE file.

The sample code within this documentation is made available under a modified MIT license. See the LICENSE-SAMPLECODE file.

Commit message:

Update README to add announcement about archiving

README.md, after:

# Announcement

This repository will be archived and marked read-only next month (June 2023). For more information, read [the announcement on the AWS News Blog](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/retiring-the-aws-documentation-on-github/).

You can find the corresponding content for this repo on [the AWS Documentation website](https://docs.aws.amazon.com). If you'd like to continue contributing to the quality of AWS documentation, you can submit feedback and suggestions for improvement there.

## AWS Storage Gateway User Guide

The open source version of the AWS Storage Gateway User Guide.

This guide covers general concepts and procedures common to all gateway types, as well as specific information about Tape and Volume Gateways.

You can navigate the guide starting from the [index](doc_source/index.md).

-IMPORTANT-
Dedicated user guides are now available for the following gateway types:
* [Amazon S3 File Gateway User Guide](https://github.com/awsdocs/amazon-s3-file-gateway-user-guide)
* [Amazon FSx File Gateway User Guide](https://github.com/awsdocs/amazon-fsx-file-gateway-user-guide)

You can submit feedback & requests for changes by submitting issues in this repo or by making proposed changes & submitting a pull request.

## License Summary

The documentation is made available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License. See the LICENSE file.

The sample code within this documentation is made available under a modified MIT license. See the LICENSE-SAMPLECODE file.
